---
title: Bad news
author: Martin Stabe
layout: post
permalink: /2003/04/09/bad-news/
views:
  - 6
btc_comment_counts:
  - 'a:0:{}'
btc_comment_summary:
  - 'a:0:{}'
categories:
  - Miscellanea
---
Just when you thought you had found a reliable source of news from all over the world, **Google News** <a href="http://www.theregister.co.uk/content/6/30112.html" target="_top">shoots itself in the foot</a>. Someone at the world&#8217;s best search engine has decided that press release feeds are acceptable news sources to be included in their news portal. So the **RIAA** or **Monsanto**, both organisations with obvious interests in current political debates, are considered news sources on par with, say, the **BBC**. The *Register&#8217;s* excellent article exposing this also makes an important point about Google&#8217;s claims that the selection and placement of stories on its news portal are &#8220;determined automatically by a computer program.&#8221;  


> No they weren&#8217;t. This isn&#8217;t some synthetic version of reality created entirely by robots. The selection and placement of stories were determined by a person, someone who thinks unedited press releases from lobbyists, special interest groups or corporations are &#8220;News&#8221;.</p>
Exactly. As sociologists of news production have long pointed out, the inevitable decision of whom to consider a legitimate source of information has always been a primary source of bias in the news, even where there is a strong professional ideology of objectivity or party-political neutrality. The same, as this shows, is true at the meta-news level. The very fact that Google has a seperate search engine for &#8220;news&#8221; sources signals that some information on the Internet is presumed to carry greater weight than the rest. Therefore, a line must be drawn between web sites deemed to be news wheat to be included rather than random web chaff to be excluded. And this can&#8217;t be automated, because it is ultimately a normative judgement about the relative credibility and desirability of various sources of information. The process can&#8217;t be automatic. And in this case, the inevitable human decision-maker introduced a very strong political bias &#8212; probably without really intending to.