---
title: Turkey
author: Martin Stabe
layout: post
permalink: /2004/11/12/turkey/
BX_post_type:
  - mini
views:
  - 46
btc_comment_counts:
  - 'a:0:{}'
btc_comment_summary:
  - 'a:0:{}'
categories:
  - European Union
  - Politics
  - USA
---
The new issue of the *Atlantic Monthly* contains an excellent article by **Robert D. Kaplan**, which neatly summarises the American perspective on [Turkish acsession to the European Union][1]. For the United States, Turkey under **Recep Tayyip Erdogan** is the face of a stable, Islamic state and therefore an entity that would be desirable bring into the Western fold, argues Kaplan:

> This Decemeber, a hesitant European Union will decide whether to open negotiations for Turkey to join. Its hesitancy has legitimate and illegitimate reasons. The legitimate ones center on the difficulty of digesting a country of 70 million people&mdash;one that is far poorer and more populous tha many of the Central and Eastern European nations recently admitted to the EU. The illegitimate ones center on the fact that&mdash;well, Turkey is Muslim. Does Europe really want that many Muslims within its community?

The economic argument against Turkish acession is sound. This [map from the *Economist*][2] neatly illustrates the problem. What remains is the prickly issue of religion. Within the existing EU states, there is a debate between those who want to ensure and (sometimes militant) secularists. Integrating a Muslim coutry would require an American-style secular ecumenicalism that tolerates (or even expects) individual religious expression in public life but is indifferent to the form of that expression. This is a non-starter those who define &ldquo;Europe&rdquo; as a Christian civilisation and railed against the exclusion of God from the European Consistition and **Rocco Buttiliogne** from the European Commission. But it&rsquo;s equally unpalitable to those who insist on a French-style militant secularism that would ban the *hijab* from public institutions.

[[ADDED 8.1.2006][3]]

 [1]: http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/prem/200412/kaplan
 [2]: http://www.economist.com/displaystory.cfm?story_id=S%27%29%28%28%25QA%27%26%20%40%213%0A&sponsorTranMode=UK
 [3]: http://martinstabe.com/blog/?p=1348