---
title: Flag flap
author: Martin Stabe
layout: post
permalink: /2004/12/13/flag-flap/
views:
  - 26
btc_comment_counts:
  - 'a:0:{}'
btc_comment_summary:
  - 'a:0:{}'
categories:
  - European Union
---
Worthing council in Sussex is forcing a pub landlord to pay a [&pound;220 fee to be allowed to keep flying the European flag][1] outside his pub.

The Brighton *Argus* reports:

> The row over the controversial blue and gold Ring of Stars emblem was sparked by a complaint from retired insuranceman **John Strange**.
> 
> Mr Strange, 68, of Gorse Avenue, Worthing, said: &#8220;The EU flag is the flag of a totalitarian foreign power which, with the help of Quislings in Westminster, intends to take over our country.
> 
> &#8220;More than a million of our people fought and died in two world wars so we might enjoy the freedom to live in our own land in accordance with our own laws.
> 
> &#8220;I trust the next time I pass along Montague Street I shall not be offended by the sight of this foul emblem flying in front of the pub.&#8221;

The council argues that because the EU flag is not a national flag, it constitutes advertising flag, which would require advertising consent from the council.

This is a joke, right? I think Mr Strange and Worthing council should read [Article 10 ECHR][2] at their earliest possible convenience.

I wonder if Mr Strange is the same John Strange of Worthing who, in 2002, wrote the following to the *Times:*

> GO IT ALONE: McDonagh&#8217;s informative article on the next immigration wave ends by saying that &#8220;it&#8217;s a European question &#8230; and there&#8217;s absolutely nothing that anyone can do about it&#8221;.
> 
> But we can do something about it: we can withdraw from the European Union and decide our own immigration policy.
> 
> John Strange  
> Worthing, Sussex.

**Update:** (14/12/04 08:41): I see this morning that the *Argus&rsquo;* links are not permanent. For the record, the linked story was on the front page of yesterday&#8217;s *Argus.*

**Update 2:** (14/12/04 08:46): The link habove as now been updated to the story in the *Argus&rsquo;* archive.

 [1]: http://www.theargus.co.uk/the_argus/archive/2004/12/13/NEWS10ZM.html "The Argus - News - Pub landlord in EU flag row"
 [2]: http://www.hri.org/docs/ECHR50.html#C.Art10