---
title: Foreign Policy on Blogging
author: Martin Stabe
layout: post
permalink: /2004/11/04/foreign-policy-on-blogging/
BX_post_type:
  - mini
views:
  - 41
btc_comment_summary:
  - 'a:0:{}'
btc_comment_counts:
  - 'a:0:{}'
categories:
  - Blogs
---
*Foreign Policy* magazine has an [article about blogging written by two well-known scholar-bloggers][1], **Daniel Drezner** and **Henry Farrell**, that provides a valuable reality check: 

> Even the most popular blog garners only a fraction of the Web traffic that major media outlets attract. According to the 2003 Pew Research Center for the People and the Press Internet Survey, only 4 percent of online Americans refer to blogs for information and opinions. &#8230; [A]n October 2003 survey of the blogosphere conducted by Perseus concluded that &ldquo;the typical blog is written by a teenage girl who uses it twice a month to update her friends and classmates on happenings in her life.&rdquo; Blogging is almost exclusively a part-time, voluntary activity. The median income generated by a weblog is zero dollars.

Why, then, are blogs are becoming internationally influential? Easy:

> Increasingly, journalists and pundits take their cues about &ldquo;what matters&rdquo; in the world from weblogs. For salient topics in global affairs, the blogosphere functions as a rare combination of distributed expertise, real-time collective response to breaking news, and public-opinion barometer. What’s more, a hierarchical structure has taken shape within the primordial chaos of cyberspace. A few elite blogs have emerged as aggregators of information and analysis, enabling media commentators to extract meaningful analysis and rely on blogs to help them interpret and predict political developments.

[[ADDED 8.1.2006][2]]

 [1]: http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=2707&popup_delayed=1
 [2]: http://martinstabe.com/blog/?p=1348